README.md, before:



[![PyPI - Python Version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/mvlearn.svg)](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/mvlearn.svg)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/mvlearn/mvlearn.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/mvlearn/mvlearn)
[![Documentation Status](https://readthedocs.org/projects/mvlearn/badge/?version=latest)](https://mvlearn.readthedocs.io/en/latest/?badge=latest)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/mvlearn/mvlearn/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/mvlearn/mvlearn)
[![PyPI version](https://badge.fury.io/py/mvlearn.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/py/mvlearn)
[![Conda Version](https://img.shields.io/conda/vn/conda-forge/mvlearn.svg)](https://anaconda.org/conda-forge/mvlearn)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0)
[![arXiv shield](https://img.shields.io/badge/arXiv-2005.11890-red.svg?style=flat)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2005.11890)

<p align="center">
  <img width=300 src="docs/figures/mvlearn-logo-transparent-grey.png" />
</p>

`mvlearn` is an open-source Python software package for multiview learning tools.

- [**Installation Guide**](https://mvlearn.neurodata.io/install.html)
- [**Documentation**](https://mvlearn.neurodata.io/index.html)
- [**Tutorials**](https://mvlearn.neurodata.io/tutorials.html)
- [**Source Code**](https://github.com/mvlearn/mvlearn/tree/master/mvlearn)
- [**Issues**](https://github.com/mvlearn/mvlearn/issues)
- [**Contribution Guide**](https://mvlearn.neurodata.io/contributing.html)
- [**Changelog**](https://mvlearn.neurodata.io/changelog.html)

In many data sets, there are multiple measurement modalities of the same subject, i.e. multiple *X* matrices (views) for the same class label vector *y*. For example, one may have both an MRI and CT scan of a diseased patient. Traditional methods for inference and analysis are often poorly suited to account for multiple views of the same subject as they cannot account for complementing views that hold different statistical properties. `mvlearn` provides a well-documented and tested collection of utilities and algorithms designed for the processing and analysis of multiview data sets.

Commit message:

Update motivation statement (#226)
* Update motivation statement

Updating the motivation statement with the language drafted in the google document.

* Update readme motivation

README.md, after:



[![PyPI - Python Version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/mvlearn.svg)](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/mvlearn.svg)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/mvlearn/mvlearn.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/mvlearn/mvlearn)
[![Documentation Status](https://readthedocs.org/projects/mvlearn/badge/?version=latest)](https://mvlearn.readthedocs.io/en/latest/?badge=latest)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/mvlearn/mvlearn/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/mvlearn/mvlearn)
[![PyPI version](https://badge.fury.io/py/mvlearn.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/py/mvlearn)
[![Conda Version](https://img.shields.io/conda/vn/conda-forge/mvlearn.svg)](https://anaconda.org/conda-forge/mvlearn)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0)
[![arXiv shield](https://img.shields.io/badge/arXiv-2005.11890-red.svg?style=flat)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2005.11890)

<p align="center">
  <img width=300 src="docs/figures/mvlearn-logo-transparent-grey.png" />
</p>

`mvlearn` is an open-source Python software package for multiview learning tools.

- [**Installation Guide**](https://mvlearn.neurodata.io/install.html)
- [**Documentation**](https://mvlearn.neurodata.io/index.html)
- [**Tutorials**](https://mvlearn.neurodata.io/tutorials.html)
- [**Source Code**](https://github.com/mvlearn/mvlearn/tree/master/mvlearn)
- [**Issues**](https://github.com/mvlearn/mvlearn/issues)
- [**Contribution Guide**](https://mvlearn.neurodata.io/contributing.html)
- [**Changelog**](https://mvlearn.neurodata.io/changelog.html)

`mvlearn` aims to serve as a community-driven open-source software package that offers reference implementations for algorithms and methods related to multiview learning (machine learning in settings where there are multiple incommensurate views or feature sets for each sample). It brings together the most widely-used tools in this setting with a standardized scikit-learn like API, well tested code and high-quality documentation. Doing so we aim to facilitate application, extension, comparison of methods, and offer a foundation for research into new multiview algorithms. We welcome new contributors and the addition of methods with proven efficacy and current use.
