docs/index.rst, before:

..  -*- coding: utf-8 -*-

.. _contents:

Overview of mvlearn_
====================

.. _mvlearn: https://github.com/mvlearn/mvlearn

mvlearn is a Python module for multiview learning. 

Motivation
----------

In many data sets, there are multiple measurement modalities of the same subject, i.e. multiple *X* matrices (views) for the same class label vector *y*. For example, a set of diseased and healthy patients in a neuroimaging study may undergo both CT and MRI scans. Traditional methods for inference and analysis are often poorly suited to account for multiple views of the same subject as they cannot account for complementing views that hold different statistical properties. While single-view methods are consolidated in well-documented packages such as scikit-learn, there is no equivalent for multiview methods. In this package, we provide a well-documented and tested collection of utilities and algorithms designed for the processing and analysis of multiview data sets.

Python
------

Python is a powerful programming language that allows concise expressions of network
algorithms.  Python has a vibrant and growing ecosystem of packages that
mvlearn uses to provide more features such as numerical linear algebra. In order to make the most out of mvlearn you will want to know how
to write basic programs in Python.  Among the many guides to Python, we
recommend the `Python documentation <https://docs.python.org/3/>`_.

Currently, mvlearn is supported for Python 3.6, 3.7, and 3.8.

Free software
-------------

mvlearn is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
terms of the :doc:`Apache-2.0 </license>`.  We welcome contributions.
Join us on `GitHub <https://github.com/mvlearn/mvlearn>`_.

History
-------

mvlearn was developed during the end of 2019 by Richard Guo, Ronan Perry, Gavin Mischler, Theo Lee, Alexander Chang, Arman Koul, and Cameron Franz, a team out of the Johns Hopkins University NeuroData group.

Documentation
=============

mvlearn is a Python package of multiview learning tools.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   install
   tutorials
   references/index
   contributing
   changelog
   license

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Useful Links

   mvlearn @ GitHub <https://github.com/mvlearn/mvlearn>
   mvlearn @ PyPI <https://pypi.org/project/mvlearn/>
   Issue Tracker <https://github.com/mvlearn/mvlearn/issues>


Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`search`

Commit message:

Update motivation statement (#226)
* Update motivation statement

Updating the motivation statement with the language drafted in the google document.

* Update readme motivation

docs/index.rst, after:

..  -*- coding: utf-8 -*-

.. _contents:

Overview of mvlearn_
====================

.. _mvlearn: https://github.com/mvlearn/mvlearn

mvlearn is a Python module for multiview learning. 

Motivation
----------

mvlearn aims to serve as a community-driven open-source software package that offers reference implementations for algorithms and methods related to multiview learning (machine learning in settings where there are multiple incommensurate views or feature sets for each sample). It brings together the most widely-used tools in this setting with a standardized scikit-learn like API, well tested code and high-quality documentation. Doing so we aim to facilitate application, extension, comparison of methods, and offer a foundation for research into new multiview algorithms. We welcome new contributors and the addition of methods with proven efficacy and current use.

Python
------

Python is a powerful programming language that allows concise expressions of network
algorithms.  Python has a vibrant and growing ecosystem of packages that
mvlearn uses to provide more features such as numerical linear algebra. In order to make the most out of mvlearn you will want to know how
to write basic programs in Python.  Among the many guides to Python, we
recommend the `Python documentation <https://docs.python.org/3/>`_.

Currently, mvlearn is supported for Python 3.6, 3.7, and 3.8.

Free software
-------------

mvlearn is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
terms of the :doc:`Apache-2.0 </license>`.  We welcome contributions.
Join us on `GitHub <https://github.com/mvlearn/mvlearn>`_.

History
-------

mvlearn was developed during the end of 2019 by Richard Guo, Ronan Perry, Gavin Mischler, Theo Lee, Alexander Chang, Arman Koul, and Cameron Franz, a team out of the Johns Hopkins University NeuroData group.

Documentation
=============

mvlearn is a Python package of multiview learning tools.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   install
   tutorials
   references/index
   contributing
   changelog
   license

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Useful Links

   mvlearn @ GitHub <https://github.com/mvlearn/mvlearn>
   mvlearn @ PyPI <https://pypi.org/project/mvlearn/>
   Issue Tracker <https://github.com/mvlearn/mvlearn/issues>


Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`search`
